# World Editor #



[ Concepts ]


	Terrain
		The geometry loaded from a heightmap.

	Editor
		Tools for editing something specific.

	Map
		Image overlayed on the terrain for colouring
		or specifying where textures are drawn.
		Maps can be large streamed tiff files or
		smaller png files (max 4096x4096)

	Texture
		Combination of diffuse and normal map textures
		that are tiled over the landscape.
		Textures should all be the same resolution and format.
		Set them in the textures window and they should appear
		in the layer material section.

	Material
		Defines how the terrain is rendered.
		You can create multiple materials and switch between
		them for diferent display modes.


[ Settings ]
	
	Most of these are self explanitory.
	Collision stops the camera going under the terrain.
	Tablet mode does not lock the mouse when rotating the camera.


[ Materials ]

	Materials are constructed from layers. The layers are applied
	in order from the top of the list to the bottom.
	Layers can be re-ordered by drag and drop.

	There are four different types of layers:

		Auto
			Applies a texture or colour based on the terrain height
			and slope.

		Mapped
			Applies a texture or colour based on a specified channel of a map

		Colour
			RGB value of a map applied directly

		Indexed
			Not implemented yet. Uses two maps to apply many textures.
			Uses its own editing mode

	All layers have a blend mode and opacity.


	Layers that apply textures have a choice of three projections:
		
		Flat
			Basic top down projection

		Triplanar
			Texture is projected in all three axes based on the terrain normal

		Vertical
			Similar to triplanar but skips the top down projection


[ Editors ]

	You can edit either the terrain topology or a single map.
	The ability to edit multiple things at once will come later perhaps ...
	Select the current editor from the menu.

	The brush settings are on sliders, and also bound to the mouse wheel with
	ctrl and shift modifiers for the different options.

	Editors
		
		Geometry
			Editing topology. Currently has four tools.
			Hold shift to modify their behaviour.

		Weight
			Edits a map by channel. Select which channel to paint to.
			Shift to erase.

			Note: If the material is set up to use this map channel to
			display a texture, you will essentially be painting that texture.

		Colour
			Select an RGB colour to paint on the map.

		Indexed
			Not done yet. Uses two maps. You will be able to select textures
			from the tool list and paint them to the texture.


[ Additional tools ]

	Object placement
		place and edit objects in the world
	
	Foliage mode
		Add foliage to the world.
		There are two types of foliage layers:
			Grass Layers     - Random textured planes
			Instanced Layers - Instanced meshes
		There are many sliders to affect the foliage placement
		You can also use Maps to affect density or scale

	Erosion tool
		Simulates rain flow to erode and deposit sediment
		Applies to the whole map, may be very slow for large maps or some settings
		Press clear to undo the last result
	
	Water tool
		Place rivers and lakes using splines
		Click and drag spline nodes or handles
		Hold shift to adjust the handles when dragging a node
		Hold alt for vertical movement


	





